605.433 – Social Media Analytics
Module 6 Homework
1. Note the appropriate social force next to the explanation for the following statements (choose from social forces: Homophily, Reciprocity, Proximity, Prestige, Social Conformity, Transitivity, and Balance).
A.	Geoff and Ted are friends, but Ted’s wife does not like Geoff, so Ted no longer sees Geoff socially. - Balance
B.	Tow individuals belong to the same tennis club. - Homophily
C.	A group of five people who work in the same physical office area trust each other. - Proximity
D.	Joe purchased an iPhone so Bill also purchased an iPhone
E.	Three agents of the same religion spend private time on family outings together.
F.	Jake took up golf because the rest of his peers play golf -
G.	Casey invited Mary to dinner when she took up a new position in the department.  Mary returned the invitation and they now share recipes. - Reciprocity
H.	Lance and Fred are both engineers but are situated at different locations.  Despite their separate physical locations they frequently use Skype and emails to share knowledge and ask advice.
I.	Charles is respected because he has a degree in law and is very knowledgable about legal matters. - Prestige
J.	Gillian met Susan at John’s party, then again at a local fund raising event managed by John.  They got talking and realized they had common interests. - Transitivity
2. How does proximity drive the formation of social relations?
3. How can a common employee lounge area in an office increase collaboration?
4. If you were a manager of a knowledge intensive organization, what kind of policies and practices would you implement to increase social interaction?
5. How can social media improve collaboration within a knowledge intensive organization?
6.  How can social media disrupt collaboration within a knowledge intensive organization?
7.  What strategies can an individual employ to increase their prestige within a social group?
8. What strategies might an individual employ to increase their prestige on social media?  How are those strategies similar or different for offline networks?
9.  What does a scale-free network topology tell you about influence and social interaction in a social media network?

